add normative language to clarify now id_tokens are used (#7)
dickhardt/openid-key-binding: openid-connect-key-binding-1_0.md

OpenID Connect is a protocol that enables a Relying Party (RP) to delegate authentication and obtain identity claims to an OpenID Connect Provider (OP).

When authenticating with OpenID Connect, an RP provides a nonce in its authentication request. The ID Token signed and returned by the OP contains the nonce and claims about the user. When verifying the ID Token, the RP confirms it contains the nonce, binding the session that made the request to the response.

> It is common for an RP to be composed of multiple components. When the RP authenticating component that obtained the ID Token wants to prove to an RP consuming component that it has authenticated a user, it may present the ID Token as a bearer token. However, bearer tokens are vulnerable to theft and replay attacks - if an attacker obtains the ID Token, they can impersonate the authenticated user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common for an RP to be composed of multiple components. When the RP authenticating component that obtained the ID Token wants to prove to an RP consuming component that it has authenticated a user, it may present the ID Token as a bearer token. However, bearer tokens are vulnerable to theft and replay attacks  - if an attacker obtains the ID Token or compromises a subsystem of that RP, they can impersonate the authenticated user.
```

> It is common for an RP to be composed of multiple components. When the RP authenticating component that obtained the ID Token wants to prove to an RP consuming component that it has authenticated a user, it may present the ID Token as a bearer token. However, bearer tokens are vulnerable to theft and replay attacks - if an attacker obtains the ID Token, they can impersonate the authenticated user.

Reviewer: This authenticating/consuming terminology I am unfamiliar with.

What is the RP authenticating component vs the RP consuming component? What are the RP consuming components consuming?  Wouldn't it simply be that an RP consists of a set of authenticating components?

This is my attempt rewrite this to provide clarity on how I think about it.

> It is common for an RP to be composed of multiple components. When the RP component that obtained the ID Token wants to prove to another RP component that it has authenticated a user, it may present the ID Token as a bearer token. However, bearer tokens are vulnerable to theft and replay attacks - if an attacker obtains the ID Token **for instance by compromising one these components**, they can impersonate the authenticated user.

> It is common for an RP to be composed of multiple components. When the RP authenticating component that obtained the ID Token wants to prove to an RP consuming component that it has authenticated a user, it may present the ID Token as a bearer token. However, bearer tokens are vulnerable to theft and replay attacks - if an attacker obtains the ID Token, they can impersonate the authenticated user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common for an RP to be composed of multiple components such as a RP authenticating component that  obtains the ID Token from the OP and an RP consuming component which checks the ID Token presented to it by the authenticating component. When the RP authenticating component wants to prove to an RP consuming component that it has authenticated a user, it may present the ID Token as a bearer token. However, bearer tokens are vulnerable to theft and replay attacks - if an attacker obtains the ID Token, they can impersonate the authenticated user.
```

}
```

# Privacy Considerations
## ID Token Proof of Possession

The mechanism for how an RP authenticating component proves to an RP consuming component that it possesses the private keys associated with the `cnf` claim in the ID Token is out of scope of this document.

> If the WG wants to, we can also profile how to use KB to bind a proof of possession to an ID Token for presentation when a proof of possesion is not present.

Public key bound ID Tokens will often contain personal (PII). The RP SHOULD obtain user consent before sharing a Public key bound ID Token that contains PII with a third party.
# Privacy Considerations

*To be completed.*
An RP authenticating component SHOULD only share an ID Token with a consuming component when such sharing is consistent with the original purpose for which the PII was collected and the scope of consent obtained from the user.

# Security Considerations

> Proof of possession authentication provides a greater level of security than bearer token authentication. To authenticate with a bearer token, the authentication secret must be sent over the internet to the authenticating party. This presents a risk that the authentication secret be stolen is transit or stolen at the server endpoint and replayed. With proof of possession, the authentication secret, i.e. the private key, never needs to leave the client. This reduces the chance of exposure and allows the client to use additional security mechanisms to protect the private key such as HSMs (Hardware Security Modules) or web browser based SSMs (Software Security Modules).

Reviewer: Did you intend to cut this section? I do not object if you did.

Author: yes -- I did intend to cut -- it does not read as a consideration, but as a statement of the benefits
